Feature/0249 capabilities (#1)
KhrystynaDubovyk/sdl_requirements: detailed_docs/Wiki/0249_capabilities.md

> ## Feature 1: As a mobile application, I want to get HMI capabilities from SDL after Ignition OFF/ON cycle so that I can interact with the HMI efficiently

Reviewer: From my point of view this proposal is not the best one to start describing requirements in a new format.
It has a huge amount of scenarios. We have 35 ATF test scripts and some of them include a few cases.
I would propose to use some of the VD proposals (0266, 0261) or Add a Reason Parameter to Protocol NAKs (0308) instead.

> ## Feature 1: As a mobile application, I want to get HMI capabilities from SDL after Ignition OFF/ON cycle so that I can interact with the HMI efficiently

Reviewer: Despite of `mobile` we also have `web_engine` and `cloud` applications which also may receive HMI capabilities

Reviewer 2: It's better to use an "as a Client..." instead of "mobile application". In case if we have any specific case, we need to describe it as a separate feature.

Author: The proposal didn't say this way of retrieving of HMI capabilities is applicable for all kind of applications. That's why I assumed it was related to mobile apps.
Please, confirm that the flow for obtaining capabilities for web_engine and cloud applications is identical and all of the 'features' listed here are applicable for the mentioned apps.

**Background**

> **Given** App requests HMI Capabilities with one of the following RPC

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk I would say, SDL requests. Because App requests that information from SDL

  * UI.GetSupportedLanguages
  * UI.GetCapabilities
  * VR.GetSupportedLanguages
  * VR.GetCapabilities
  * TTS.GetSupportedLanguages
  * TTS.GetCapabilities
  * Buttons.GetCapabilities
  * VehicleInfo.GetVehicleType
  * RC.GetCapabilities
  * UI.GetLanguage
  * VR.GetLanguage

>   * TTS.GetLanguage

Reviewer: Applications do not send such requests since all of these are HMI ones. Applications may receive HMI capabilities by 2 ways:
1. In `RegisterAppInterface` response
2. In `GetSystemCapability` response

#### Scenario 1: SDL Provides HMI capabilities persisted in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile`

**Given** App registers after Ignition OFF/ON cycle

**When** App requests HMI Capabilities

> **Then** SDL checks `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` in `AppStorageFolder` in [smartDeviceLink.ini](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core/blob/master/src/appMain/smartDeviceLink.ini)  

Reviewer: According to description for `Then` statement (see https://cucumber.io/docs/gherkin/reference/#step-arguments):
> An outcome should be on an observable output. That is, something that comes out of the system (report, user interface, message), and not a behaviour deeply buried inside the system

So the current req-t is not testable.

This is also applicable for many other scenarios.

File `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` is an internal SDL file (as well as PolicyDB, AppStorage etc.)
We need to think how to avoid usage of this internal (under the hood) items.
I'm not sure if it's possible and this could be a challenge. 
I would propose to write `Then` section in a way that SDL sends some data/messages to App or to HMI.
Unfortunately most of the scenarios needs to be reworked.

Author: my idea was 
**GIVEN**(situation/condition) - is like we normally have **_pre-condition_**
**WHEN**(user action) - most frequently in our case it's an **_application request_**
**THEN**(result) statements - this is the most tricky, because 

- from the standpoint of a user/client - here should be `something that comes out of the system (report, user interface, message)`

- from the standpoint of SDL contributors - here should be recorded **_SDL behaviour_**

In this attempt of mine, I was searching for some balance here, trying to please both sides.

**And** SDL provides HMI Capabilities persisted in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` in the corresponding response.

---

#### Scenario 2: SDL creates `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` in case it is not present in `AppStorageFolder` in _SmartDeviceLink.ini_ 

> **When** SDL checks `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` and variable is null/empty in [smartDeviceLink.ini](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core/blob/master/src/appMain/smartDeviceLink.ini)  

Reviewer 3: SDL creates this file only in case when variable is not empty, otherwise that feature is considered as disabled
```suggestion
**When** SDL checks `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` and variable is not null/empty in [smartDeviceLink.ini](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core/blob/master/src/appMain/smartDeviceLink.ini)  
```

**Then** SDL must create `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file  

---

#### Scenario 3: SDL requests HMI capabilities missing in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` from HMI

**When** Any capability requested by an app is missing in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile`

**Then** SDL must default back to `hmi_capabilities.json` file for corresponding capability  

> **And** SDL should send requests to get these capabilities from HMI

Reviewer: As far as I know SDL strategy in this scenario is the following:
1. SDL checks data in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile`
2. If data is not present SDL send appropriate request(s) to HMI to get such data
3. If data is not provided by HMI SDL defaults back to `hmi_capabilities.json` file

Author: writing this was inspired by
https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0249-Persisting-HMI-Capabilities-specific-to-headunit.md#functional-changes 
> During boot up, SDL Core should check if HMICapabilitiesCacheFile file is present in AppStorageFolder from smartDeviceLink.ini
If present, SDL Core loads the contents of the file and uses that as current system HMI capabilities.
**In case any capability is missing, SDL Core should default back to hmi_capabilities.json file for corresponding capability and should send requests to get these capabilities from HMI.**

maybe, I misunderstood the proposal. please, prompt what I should correct according to implementation?

> **And** SDL should send requests to get these capabilities from HMI

Reviewer: Another point to notice: `App request to SDL` (1) described in `When` and `SDL should send requests to HMI` (2) described in `Then` are two independent processes.
It means currently at first SDL does (2), store all the capabilities in internal memory and then if (1) happens provide a response to app using internal data.

---

#### Scenario 4: SDL writes capabilities data received from HMI to `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file 

**Given**  Receiving HMI response for any of the UI/VR/TTS/Buttons/VehicleInfo/Navigation/RC capabilities

> **When** SDL checks if `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file already has the data set received in HMI response` and `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file does not have the data set received in HMI response

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**When** SDL checks if `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file already has the data set received in HMI response and `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file does not have the data set received in HMI response
```

**Then** SDL writes the HMI response data to `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file  
**And** SDL does not send corresponding requests to get HMI capabilities to HMI for subsequent ignition cycles, follow the rest of launch sequence requests/notifications as applicable.  
**And** SDL uses this new data set for apps/SDL Core communication until ignition cycle is performed.

---

> #### Scenario 5:  SDL continues launching sequence if capabilities sent fom HMI are already present in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Scenario 5:  SDL does not overwrite the capabilities sent from HMI if they are already present in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file
```

**And** SDL follows the rest of the launch sequence

---

#### Scenario 6: SDL overwrites contents of received Dynamic RPC in hmi_capabilities_cache.json file

**Given** Mobile application already obtained HMI capabilities in the ignition cycle

**When** HMI sends a Dynamic RPC with changes to capabilities

**Then** Core must overwrite contents of received notifications in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file and use this data until ignition cycle is performed

**_Dynamic RPCs:_**
  * UI.OnLanguageChange
  * VR.OnLanguageChange
  * TTS.OnLanguageChange

---

#### Scenario 7: SDL deletes `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file when a master reset is performed

**Given** All HMI Capabilities are presented in `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` 

**When** HMI sends OnExitAllApplications with reason `MASTER_RESET`

**Then** SDL Core must delete `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` in AppStorageFolder in [smartDeviceLink.ini](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_core/blob/master/src/appMain/smartDeviceLink.ini)

## Feature 2: As a mobile application, I want to get actual HMI capabilities from SDL after HMI SW update

### Scenario 1: SDL regenerates `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile` file when system SW version changes

> **Given** App sends RAI after HMI SW update 

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk 
```suggestion
**Given** HMI sends BC.GetSystemInfo(`ccpu_version`) response to SDL
```

**When** SDL's local `ccpu_version` does not match with received from BC.GetSystemInfo(`ccpu_version`)

**Then** SDL must delete `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile`  
**And** SDL must send `GetCapabilities` requests for each interface (VR, TTS, UI, etc) to HMI and persist the responses received from HMI to `HMICapabilitiesCacheFile`  

> **And** SDL must set `IsHMICooperating` to true when HMI has responded to all the HMI capabilities requests  

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk it is an internal SDL variable and I don't think it is testable

**And** SDL must respond to all pending RAI requests from mobile applications

---

### Scenario 2: SDL does not persist capabilities after SW update if HMI doesn't respond to `GetCapabilities` requests 
**Given** SDL sends `GetCapabilities` requests for each interface (VR, TTS, UI, etc) to HMI

**When** HMI does not send response for one ore more `GetCapabilities` requests or HMI sends errors

**Then** SDL must fall back to default HMI Capabilities  

> **And** SDL must NOT persist those capabilities in cache  

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk I am not sure about that statement. As I remember from implementation, SDL persist all received responses in cache.

Reviewer 2: We need to double-check it for sure in this case :)

Reviewer 3: @okandul @KhrystynaDubovyk just verified in source code - SDL actually persists all capabilities in cache on successful response for at least one of them. For example, if SDL sends `TTS.GetCapability` and `UI.GetCapability` and HMI responds to TTS capabilities with SUCCESS and error/no response on UI then SDL will save TTS part into the file. Note that UI part will be omitted in cache in that case.
Just want to note that here is not a "transaction-like" approach when SDL must persist capabilities only if all responses were successful and vise versa.

Author: this line in proposal made me think SDL must NOT persist those capabilities in cache
https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0249-Persisting-HMI-Capabilities-specific-to-headunit.md#hmi-capabilities-persistence-after-hmi-sw-update 
> In case HMI does not send response for GetCapabilities requests or if HMI sends error, SDL Core should fall back to default HMI Capabilities and set IsHMICooperating to true. SDL Core should not persist those capabilities in cache.

again, I might have misunderstood the proposal. 
please, confirm that it should be written `SDL must persist those capabilities in cache` according to the current implementation

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk I see. Agree, this line is really confusing. So I would say that SDL must fall back to default HMI capabilities for this particular request in case when HMI sends error OR does not respond at all. Additionally, SDL should not save defaulted capabilities in cache file. However, if SDL received response from HMI for this particular request, it should use received capabilities AND save that particular response into the cache file.
Currently SDL implemented in that way

> **And** SDL must set `IsHMICooperating` to true  

Reviewer 3: @KhrystynaDubovyk not testable
